README.md, before:

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/scientificprogrammingUOS/lectures/master?urlpath=lab)
# Lectures in Scientific Computing in Python
This repository contains all lectures from the course 
*Scientific programming in Python* that is part of the Cognitive Science program
at the University Osnabrück. Each lecture is accompanied by a Jupyter notebook
that explains each topic with a combination of code and text. You
can view the notebooks directly on GitHub or run them locally and play
with the code. If you do not want to install anything, click on the Binder
logo above to run all the notebooks in a ready to use environment in the cloud.

## Recordings
All lecture recordings from 2018 can be viewed on [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl) and on the Opencast platform.

| Lecture | YouTube                                                                                              | Opencast                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmVC3XxkXhI&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=1)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=b0079cbf-51b7-47c1-8a38-21147935d249)     |
| 02      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awAl94Rx0u8&index=2&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=f41dc9ef-c846-4f07-a7a8-b87b92cd82f9)     |
| 03      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s01yqt2fxwk&index=3&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=fcb80388-4dc3-4336-bec4-a294ccc096de) |
| 04      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxo-3fDJE6M&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=4)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=f695daea-8ee4-473b-8684-c46cbef62586) |
| 05      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VmWEcqdcqa4&index=5&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=3a01b270-efc0-4d38-8457-586ec2fc6886) |
| 06      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHXj14joofo&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=6)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=0b158123-ecdb-4081-a13a-4a13c57cfeac) |
| 07      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw2uqr__5-M&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=7)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=e077a983-89b3-40f7-818c-4cd34906f41f) |
| 08      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAiFhPNZ4hU&index=8&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=4f440f84-8de7-4336-8f3f-b8f5764d84f3) |
| 09      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k371NeL-7tM&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=9)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=79bce1f2-48e3-407b-8a1d-caf2a74e5517) |
| 10      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Ba9LmyJ1ko&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=10) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=634cd5c8-0227-4c19-9400-e348b53b2bf0) |
| 11      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEt6Eww26s4&index=11&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=a34a0164-19da-406b-b1e1-3570ebcdc8d4) |
| 12      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BV35GhsqmuE&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=12) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=6d4e5f5e-727f-4834-80db-4322a86b0a96)     |

## Installation
Create a virtual Python environment, name e.g. *scientific*, for example using `conda`.

    $ conda env create -f environment.yml

Activate the environment 

    $ conda activate scientific
    
you might see some error like `your shell has not been set up to use conda activate`. Follow the instructions given in your shell to make it work.

then start JupyterLab

    $ jupyter lab

JupyterLab should open in your browser. From there you can navigate to the notebooks 
and interact with them.


## Contributing
Before committing changes, run the whole notebook from top to bottom using

    $ jupyter nbconvert --execute --allow-errors --inplace <lecture.ipynb> 
    
To make new interactive exercises install [jupyter-solutions](https://github.com/rmotr/jupyterlab-solutions) and set up as teacher.

Only use markdown headers to structure the lectures. Numbering will be automatically handled by the [jupyterlab-toc extension](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab-toc).

## Acknowledgments
Thanks to [Auss Abbood](https://github.com/aauss) for making the videos YouTube ready!

Commit message:

Prepare second part of lecture

README.md, after:

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/scientificprogrammingUOS/lectures/master?urlpath=lab)
# Lectures in Scientific Computing in Python
This repository contains all lectures from the course 
*Scientific programming in Python* that is part of the Cognitive Science program
at the University Osnabrück. Each lecture is accompanied by a Jupyter notebook
that explains each topic with a combination of code and text. You
can view the notebooks directly on GitHub or run them locally and play
with the code. If you do not want to install anything, click on the Binder
logo above to run all the notebooks in a ready to use environment in the cloud.

## Recordings
All lecture recordings from 2018 can be viewed on [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl) and on the Opencast platform.

| Lecture | YouTube                                                                                              | Opencast                                                                                                                                           |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 01      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmVC3XxkXhI&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=1)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=b0079cbf-51b7-47c1-8a38-21147935d249)     |
| 02      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awAl94Rx0u8&index=2&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=f41dc9ef-c846-4f07-a7a8-b87b92cd82f9)     |
| 03      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s01yqt2fxwk&index=3&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=fcb80388-4dc3-4336-bec4-a294ccc096de) |
| 04      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxo-3fDJE6M&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=4)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=f695daea-8ee4-473b-8684-c46cbef62586) |
| 05      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VmWEcqdcqa4&index=5&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=3a01b270-efc0-4d38-8457-586ec2fc6886) |
| 06      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHXj14joofo&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=6)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=0b158123-ecdb-4081-a13a-4a13c57cfeac) |
| 07      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw2uqr__5-M&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=7)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=e077a983-89b3-40f7-818c-4cd34906f41f) |
| 08      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAiFhPNZ4hU&index=8&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=4f440f84-8de7-4336-8f3f-b8f5764d84f3) |
| 09      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k371NeL-7tM&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=9)  | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=79bce1f2-48e3-407b-8a1d-caf2a74e5517) |
| 10      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Ba9LmyJ1ko&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=10) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=634cd5c8-0227-4c19-9400-e348b53b2bf0) |
| 11      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEt6Eww26s4&index=11&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&amp;id=a34a0164-19da-406b-b1e1-3570ebcdc8d4) |
| 12      | [View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BV35GhsqmuE&list=PL7Rs54JKuEjFRyyhtJy2eDOhqTtmWpXzl&index=12) | [View](https://video4.virtuos.uos.de/engage/theodul/ui/core.html?cid=a18d5bd1b862d194bcd7b56bca95c32f&id=6d4e5f5e-727f-4834-80db-4322a86b0a96)     |

## Installation
Create a virtual Python environment, name e.g. *scientific*, for example using `conda`.

    $ conda env create -f environment.yml

Activate the environment 

    $ conda activate scientific
    
you might see some error like `your shell has not been set up to use conda activate`. Follow the instructions given in your shell to make it work.

then start JupyterLab

    $ jupyter lab

JupyterLab should open in your browser. From there you can navigate to the notebooks 
and interact with them.


## Contributing
Before committing changes, run the whole notebook from top to bottom using

    $ jupyter nbconvert --execute --allow-errors --inplace lecture.ipynb 
    
To make new interactive exercises install [jupyter-solutions](https://github.com/rmotr/jupyterlab-solutions) and set up as teacher, by setting

    c.JupyterLabRmotrSolutions.role = "teacher"

in the repositories `jupyter_notebook_config.py`.

Only use markdown headers to structure the lectures. Numbering will be automatically handled by the [jupyterlab-toc extension](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab-toc).
Also use markdown to talk about the content of the lecture and the next cells. Use comments only if you want to highlight something in a specific line of code.
If you write comments, write them in full sentences.

## Acknowledgments
Thanks to [Auss Abbood](https://github.com/aauss) for making the videos YouTube ready!
